CHAPTER ONE
THE BOY WHO LIVED
Mister and woman person, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say
that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last people
you would expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just
did not hold with such nonsense.
Mister person was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made
drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did have a
very large mustache. woman person was thin and blonde and had nearly twice the
usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she spent so much of her
time craning over garden fences, spying on the neighbors. The persons had a
small son called person and in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere.
The persons had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and
their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it. They did not think they
could bear it if anyone found out about the person. woman Potter was woman
person sister, but they had not met for several years; in fact, woman person
pretended she did not have a sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing
husband were as unpersonish as it was possible to be. The persons shuddered
to think what the neighbors would say if the person arrived in the street. The
persons knew that the person had a small son, too, but they had never even
seen him. This boy was another good reason for keeping the person away; they
did not want person mixing with a child like that.
When Mister and woman person woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story
starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange and
mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. Mister person
hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for work, and woman person
gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming person into his high chair.
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window.
At half past eight, Mister person picked up his briefcase, pecked woman
person on the cheek, and tried to kiss person good-bye but missed, because
person was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls.
“Little ” chortled Mister person as he left the house. He got into his car
and backed out of number four drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of
something peculiar — a cat reading a map. For a second, Mister person did not
realize what he had seen — then he jerked his head around to look again. There
was a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive, but there was not a map in
sight. What could he have been thinking of? It must have been a trick of the
light. Mister person blinked and stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mister person
drove around the corner and up the road, he watched the cat in his mirror. It was
now reading the sign that said Privet Drive — no, looking at the sign; cats
could not read maps or signs. Mister person gave himself a little shake and put the
cat out of his mind. As he drove toward town he thought of nothing except a
large order of drills he was hoping to get that day.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind by something
else. As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, he could not help noticing that
there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people about. People in cloaks. Mister
person could not bear people who dressed in funny clothes — the getups you
saw on young people! He supposed this was some stupid new fashion. He
drummed his fingers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of these
weirdos standing quite close by. They were whispering excitedly together. Mister
person was enraged to see that a couple of them were not young at all; why, that
man had to be older than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The
nerve of him! But then it struck Mister person that this was probably some silly
stunt —these people were obviously collecting for something…yes, that would
be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mister person arrived in the
Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills.
Mister person always sat with his back to the window in his office on the
ninth floor. If he had not, he might have found it harder to concentrate on drills
that morning. He did not see the owls swooping past in broad daylight, though
people down in the street did; they pointed and gazed open-mouthed as owl after
owl sped overhead. Most of them had never seen an owl even at nighttime. Mister
person, however, had a perfectly normal, owl-free morning. He yelled at five
different people. He made several important telephone calls and shouted a bit
more. He was in a very good mood until lunchtime, when he thought he would stretch
his legs and walk across the road to buy himself a bun from the bakery.
He would for gotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed a group of
them next to the baker. He eyed them angrily as he passed. He did not know
why, but they made him uneasy. This bunch were whispering excitedly, too, and
he could not see a single collecting tin. It was on his way back past them,
clutching a large doughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words of what they
were saying.
“The person, that right, that what I heard —”
“ — yes, their son, person —”
Mister person stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He looked back at the
whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, but thought better of it.
He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his office, snapped at his
secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone, and had almost finished
dialing his home number when he changed his mind. He put the receiver back
down and stroked his mustache, thinking…no, he was being stupid. Potter
was not such an unusual name. He was sure there were lots of people called Potter
who had a son called person. Come to think of it, he was not even sure his nephew
was called person. He would never even seen the boy. It might have been Harvey. Or
Harold. There was no point in worrying woman person; she always got so upset at
any mention of her sister. He did not blame her — if he would had a sister like that…
but all the same, those people in cloaks.…
He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon and when
he left the building at five at clock, he was still so worried that he walked straight
into someone just outside the door.
“Sorry,” he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost fell. It was
a few seconds before Mister person realized that the man was wearing a violet
cloak. He did not seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the ground. On the
contrary, his face split into a wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice that made
passersby stare, “Do not be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could upset me today!
Rejoice, for You-Know-Who has gone at last! Even Enemys like yourself
should be celebrating, this happy, happy day!”
And the old man hugged Mister person around the middle and walked off.
Mister person stood rooted to the spot. He had been hugged by a complete
stranger. He also thought he had been called a Enemy, whatever that was. He
was rattled. He hurried to his car and set off for home, hoping he was imagining
things, which he had never hoped before, because he did not approve of
imagination.
As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the first thing he saw —
and it did not improve his mood — was the tabby cat he would spotted that morning. It
was now sitting on his garden wall. He was sure it was the same one; it had the
same markings around its eyes.
“Shoo!” said Mister person loudly.
The cat did not move. It just gave him a stern look. Was this normal cat
behavior? Mister person wondered. Trying to pull himself together, he let himself
into the house. He was still determined not to mention anything to his wife.
woman person had had a nice, normal day. She told him over dinner all
about woman Next Door problems with her daughter and how person had
learned a new word (“Wo not!”). Mister person tried to act normally. When person
had been put to bed, he went into the living room in time to catch the last report
on the evening news:
“And finally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported that the nation
owls have been behaving very unusually today. Although owls normally hunt at
night and are hardly ever seen in daylight, there have been hundreds of sightings
of these birds flying in every direction since sunrise. Experts are unable to
explain why the owls have suddenly changed their sleeping pattern.” The
newscaster allowed himself a grin. “Most mysterious. And now, over to Jim
McGuffin with the weather. Going to be any more showers of owls tonight,
Jim?”
“Well, Ted,” said the weatherman, “I do not know about that, but it not
only the owls that have been acting oddly today. Viewers as far apart as Kent,
Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in to tell me that instead of the rain I
promised yesterday, they have had a downpour of shooting stars! Perhaps people
have been celebrating Bonfire Night early — it not until next week, folks! But
I can promise a wet night tonight.”
Mister person sat frozen in his armchair. Shooting stars all over Britain?
Owls flying by daylight? Mysterious people in cloaks all over the place? And a
whisper, a whisper about the person.…
woman person came into the living room carrying two cups of tea. It was
no good. He would have to say something to her. He cleared his throat nervously. “Er
— Petunia, dear — you have not heard from your sister lately, have you?”
As he had expected, woman person looked shocked and angry. After all,
they normally pretended she did not have a sister.
“No,” she said sharply. “Why?”
“Funny stuff on the news,” Mister person mumbled. “Owls…shooting
stars…and there were a lot of funny-looking people in town today.…”
“So?” snapped woman person.
“Well, I just thought…maybe…it was something to do with…you
know…her crowd.”
woman person sipped her tea through pursed lips. Mister person wondered
whether he dared tell her he would heard the name person.” He decided he did not
dare. Instead he said, as casually as he could, “Their son — he would be about
person age now, would not he?”
“I suppose so,” said woman person stiffly.
“What his name again? person, is not it?”
“person. Nasty, common name, if you ask me.”
“Oh, yes,” said Mister person, his heart sinking horribly. “Yes, I quite
agree.”
He did not say another word on the subject as they went upstairs to bed.
While woman person was in the bathroom, Mister person crept to the bedroom
window and peered down into the front garden. The cat was still there. It was
staring down Privet Drive as though it were waiting for something.
Was he imagining things? Could all this have anything to do with the
person? If it did...if it got out that they were related to a pair of — well, he did not
think he could bear it.
The persons got into bed. woman person fell asleep quickly but Mister
person lay awake, turning it all over in his mind. His last, comforting thought
before he fell asleep was that even if the person were involved, there was no
reason for them to come near him and woman person. The person knew very well
what he and Petunia thought about them and their kind....He could not see how he
and Petunia could get mixed up in anything that might be going on — he
yawned and turned over — it could not affect them.…
How very wrong he was.
Mister person might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep, but the cat on
the wall outside was showing no sign of sleepiness. It was sitting as still as a
statue, its eyes fixed unblinkingly on the far corner of Privet Drive. It did not so
much as quiver when a car door slammed on the next street, nor when two owls
swooped overhead. In fact, it was nearly midnight before the cat moved at all.
A man appeared on the corner the cat had been watching, appeared so
suddenly and silently you would have thought he would just popped out of the ground.
The cat tail twitched and its eyes narrowed.
Nothing like this man had ever been seen on Privet Drive. He was tall,
thin, and very old, judging by the silver of his hair and beard, which were both
long enough to tuck into his belt. He was wearing long robes, a purple cloak that
swept the ground, and high-heeled, buckled boots. His blue eyes were light,
bright, and sparkling behind half-moon spectacles and his nose was very long
and crooked, as though it had been broken at least twice. This man name was
Albus Professor.
Albus Professor did not seem to realize that he had just arrived in a
street where everything from his name to his boots was unwelcome. He was
busy rummaging in his cloak, looking for something. But he did seem to realize
he was being watched, because he looked up suddenly at the cat, which was still
staring at him from the other end of the street. For some reason, the sight of the
cat seemed to amuse him. He chuckled and muttered, “I should have known.”
He found what he was looking for in his inside pocket. It seemed to be a
silver cigarette lighter. He flicked it open, held it up in the air, and clicked it. The
nearest street lamp went out with a little pop. He clicked it again — the next
lamp flickered into darkness. Twelve times he clicked the Put-Outer, until the
only lights left on the whole street were two tiny pinpricks in the distance, which
were the eyes of the cat watching him. If anyone looked out of their window
now, even beady-eyed woman person, they would not be able to see anything that
was happening down on the pavement. Professor slipped the Put-Outer back
inside his cloak and set off down the street toward number four, where he sat
down on the wall next to the cat. He did not look at it, but after a moment he
spoke to it.
“Fancy seeing you here, Professor Professor.”
He turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone. Instead he was smiling at
a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the
shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes. She, too, was wearing a
cloak, an emerald one. Her black hair was drawn into a tight bun. She looked
distinctly ruffled.
“How did you know it was me?” she asked.
“My dear Professor, I have never seen a cat sit so stiffly.”
“You would be stiff if you would been sitting on a brick wall all day,” said
Professor Professor.
“All day? When you could have been celebrating? I must have passed a
dozen feasts and parties on my way here.”
Professor Professor sniffed angrily.
“Oh yes, I have celebrating, all right,” she said impatiently. “You would think
they would be a bit more careful, but no —even the Enemys have noticed
something going on. It was on their news.” She jerked her head back at the
persons’ dark living-room window. “I heard it. Flocks of owls…shooting
stars…Well, they’re not completely stupid. They were bound to notice
something. Shooting stars down in Kent — I’ll bet that was . He
never had much sense.”
“You ca not blame them,” said Professor gently. “We have had precious
little to celebrate for eleven years.”
“I know that,” said Professor Professor irritably. “But that no reason
to lose our heads. People are being downright careless, out on the streets in
broad daylight, not even dressed in Enemy clothes, swapping rumors.”
She threw a sharp, sideways glance at Professor here, as though
hoping he was going to tell her something, but he did not, so she went on. “A fine
thing it would be if, on the very day You-Know-Who seems to have disappeared
at last, the Enemy found out about us all. I suppose he really has gone,
Professor?”
“It certainly seems so,” said Professor. “We have much to be thankful
for. Would you care for a lemon drop?”
“A what?”
“A lemon drop. They’re a kind of Enemy sweet I’m rather fond of.”
“No, thank you,” said Professor Professor coldly, as though she did not
think this was the moment for lemon drops. “As I say, even if You-Know-Who
has gone —”
“My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like yourself can call him by
his name? All this ‘You-Know-What  nonsense — for eleven years I have been
trying to persuade people to call him by his proper name: Voldemort.” Professor
Professor flinched, but Professor, who was unsticking two lemon drops,
seemed not to notice. “It all gets so confusing if we keep saying ‘You-Know Who.’ I have never seen any reason to be frightened of saying Voldemort
name.”
“I know you have not, said Professor Professor, sounding half
exasperated, half admiring. “But you’re different. Everyone knows you’re the
only one You-Know- oh, all right, Voldemort, was frightened of.”
“You flatter me,” said Professor calmly. “Voldemort had powers I will
never have.”
“Only because you’re too — well — noble to use them.”
“It lucky it dark. I have not blushed so much since Madam Pomfrey
told me she liked my new earmuffs.”
Professor Professor shot a sharp look at Professor and said “The
owls are nothing next to the rumors that are flying around. You know what
they’re saying? About why he disappeared? About what finally stopped him?”
It seemed that Professor Professor had reached the point she was most
anxious to discuss, the real reason she had been waiting on a cold, hard wall all
day, for neither as a cat nor as a woman had she fixed Professor with such a
piercing stare as she did now. It was plain that whatever “everyone” was saying,
she was not going to believe it until Professor told her it was true.
Professor, however, was choosing another lemon drop and did not answer.
“What they’re saying,” she pressed on, “is that last night Voldemort
turned up in Godric Hollow. He went to find the person. The rumor is that Lily
and James Potter are — are — that they’re — dead.”
Professor bowed his head. Professor Professor gasped.
“Lily and James…I ca not believe it…I did not want to believe it…Oh,
Albus…”
Professor reached out and patted her on the shoulder. “I know…I
know…” he said heavily.
Professor Professor voice trembled as she went on. “That not all.
They’re saying he tried to kill the Potter son, person. But he could not. He
could not kill that little boy. No one knows why, or how, but they’re saying that
when he could not kill person Potter, Voldemort power somehow broke — and
that why he gone.”
Professor nodded glumly.
“It — it true?” faltered Professor Professor. “After all he done…
all the people he killed…he could not kill a little boy? It just astounding…of
all the things to stop him…but how in the name of heaven did person survive?”
“We can only guess.” said Professor. “We may never know.”
Professor Professor pulled out a lace handkerchief and dabbed at her
eyes beneath her spectacles. Professor gave a great sniff as he took a golden
watch from his pocket and examined it. It was a very odd watch. It had twelve
hands but no numbers; instead, little planets were moving around the edge. It
must have made sense to Professor, though, because he put it back in his
pocket and said, “friend late. I suppose it was he who told you I would be here, by
the way?”
“Yes,” said Professor Professor. “And I do not suppose you’re going to
tell me why you’re here, of all places?”
“I have come to bring person to his aunt and uncle. They’re the only family
he has left now.”
“You do not mean – you ca not mean the people who live here?” cried
Professor Professor, jumping to her feet and pointing at number four.
“Professor — you ca not. I have been watching them all day. You could not find
two people who are less like us. And they have got this son — I saw him kicking
his mother all the way up the street, screaming for sweets. person Potter come
and live here!”
“It the best place for him,” said Professor firmly. “His aunt and
uncle will be able to explain everything to him when he older. I have written
them a letter.”
“A letter?” repeated Professor Professor faintly, sitting back down on
the wall. “Really, Professor, you think you can explain all this in a letter?
These people will never understand him! He’ll be famous — a legend — I
would not be surprised if today was known as person Potter day in the future —
there will be books written about person — every child in our world will know
his name!”
“Exactly.” said Professor, looking very seriously over the top of his
half-moon glasses. “It would be enough to turn any boy head. Famous before
he can walk and talk! Famous for something he wo not even remember! Can you
see how much better off he’ll be, growing up away from all that until he ready
to take it?”
Professor Professor opened her mouth, changed her mind, swallowed,
and then said, “Yes — yes, you’re right, of course. But how is the boy getting
here, Professor?” She eyed his cloak suddenly as though she thought he might
be hiding person underneath it.
“friend bringing him.”
“You think it — wise — to trust friend with something as important as
this?”
“I would trust friend with my life,” said Professor.
“I’m not saying his heart is not in the right place,” said Professor
Professor grudgingly, “but you ca not pretend he not careless. He does tend
to — what was that?”
A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. It grew
steadily louder as they looked up and down the street for some sign of a
headlight; it swelled to a roar as they both looked up at the sky — and a huge
motorcycle fell out of the air and landed on the road in front of them.
If the motorcycle was huge, it was nothing to the man sitting astride it.
He was almost twice as tall as a normal man and at least five times as wide. He
looked simply too big to be allowed, and so wild — long tangles of bushy black
hair and beard hid most of his face, he had hands the size of trash can lids, and
his feet in their leather boots were like baby dolphins. In his vast, muscular arms
he was holding a bundle of blankets.
“friend,” said Professor, sounding relieved. “At last. And where did
you get that motorcycle?”
“Borrowed it, Professor Professor, sir,” said the giant, climbing
carefully off the motorcycle as he spoke. “Young Sirius Black lent it to me. I have
got him, sir.”
“No problems, were there?”
“No, sir — house was almost destroyed, but I got him out all right before
the Enemys started swarmin’ around. He fell asleep as we was flyin’ over
Bristol.”
Professor and Professor Professor bent forward over the bundle of
blankets. Inside, just visible, was a baby boy, fast asleep. Under a tuft of jetblack hair over his forehead they could see a curiously shaped cut, like a bolt of
lightning.
“Is that where —?” whispered Professor Professor.
“Yes,” said Professor. “He’ll have that scar forever.”
“could not you do something about it, Professor?”